Abe et al. (2013). An early framework for determining artistic influence. Lecture Notes In Computer Science.
Acerbi (2019). Cognitive attraction and online misinformation. Palgrave Communications.
Acerbi and Bentley (2014). Biases in cultural transmission shape the turnover of popular traits. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Acerbi et al. (2012). The logic of fashion cycles. Plos One.
Acerbi et al. (2013). The expression of emotions in 20th century books. Plos One.
Acerbi et al. (2017). Cultural complexity and demography: the case of folktales. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Aguirre‐Fernández et al. (2020). Panpipes as units of cultural analysis and dispersal. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Aguirre‐Fernández et al. (2021). Cultural macroevolution of musical instruments in south america. Humanities And Social Sciences Communications.
Albrecht and Huron (2012). A statistical approach to tracing the historical development of major and minor pitch distributions, 1400-1750. Music Perception An Interdisciplinary Journal.
Alfredo et al. (2020). Arrow of time across five centuries of classical music. Physical Review Research.
Algee‐Hewitt et al. (2023). Canon/archive : large-scale dynamics in the literary field. Publication Server Of Goethe University Frankfurt Am Main (Goethe University Frankfurt).
Anglada-Tort and Müllensiefen (2017). The repeated recording illusion. Music Perception An Interdisciplinary Journal.
Anglada-Tort et al. (2023). Large-scale iterated singing experiments reveal oral transmission mechanisms underlying music evolution. Current Biology.
Anonymous (2023). Make love or war? Monitoring the thematic evolution of medieval french narratives. Zenodo (Cern European Organization For Nuclear Research).
Askin and Mauskapf (2017). What makes popular culture popular? Product features and optimal differentiation in music. American Sociological Review.
Banerjee and Ingram (2018). Fame as an illusion of creativity: evidence from the pioneers of abstract art. Ssrn Electronic Journal.
Barkow and Sperber (1998). Explaining culture: a naturalistic approach.. Journal Of The Royal Anthropological Institute.
Barrett (2011). Supernormal stimuli: how primal urges overran their evolutionary purpose. Southeastern Naturalist.
Barrett and Nyhof (2001). Spreading non-natural concepts: the role of intuitive conceptual structures in memory and transmission of cultural materials. Journal Of Cognition And Culture.
Barrett et al. (2009). Counterintuitiveness in folktales: finding the cognitive optimum. Journal Of Cognition And Culture.
Bartalesi and Portera (2015). Beyond the nature-culture dichotomy: a proposal for evolutionary aesthetics. Doaj (Doaj: Directory Of Open Access Journals).
Bartlett (1920). Some experiments on the reproduction of folk-stories. Folklore.
Baumard et al. (2022). The cultural evolution of love in literary history. Nature Human Behaviour.
Bayard (1950). Prolegomena to a study of the principal melodic families of british-american folk song. Journal Of American Folklore.
Beek (2016). The transmission of kapsiki-higi folktales over two generations. Palgrave Macmillan Us Ebooks.
Beheim (2025). Opening strategies in the game of go from feudalism to superhuman ai. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Beheim et al. (2014). Strategic social learning and the population dynamics of human behavior: the game of go. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Bentley et al. (2007). Regular rates of popular culture change reflect random copying. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Berl et al. (2021). Prestige and content biases together shape the cultural transmission of narratives. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Bloch (2005). Essays in cultural transmission. London School Of Economics And Political Science Research Online (London School Of Economics And Political Science).
Bomin and ID (2023). Studying the diversity of central african harps. Hal (Le Centre Pour La Communication Scientifique Directe).
Bomin et al. (2016). The evolution of musical diversity: the key role of vertical transmission. Plos One.
Borredon et al. (2025). Did teddy bears culturally evolve to be cuter? A preregistered replication. Journal Of Cognition And Culture.
Bortolini et al. (2017). Inferring patterns of folktale diffusion using genomic data. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Bountouridis et al. (2017). Melodic similarity and applications using biologically-inspired techniques. Applied Sciences.
Brand et al. (2019). Cultural evolution of emotional expression in 50 years of song lyrics. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Brown (1999). The musilanguage model of music evolution. The Mit Press Ebooks.
Brown and Jordania (2011). Universals in the world’s musics. Psychology Of Music.
Brown et al. (2013). Correlations in the population structure of music, genes and language. Proceedings Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Broze and Shanahan (2013). Diachronic changes in jazz harmony. Music Perception An Interdisciplinary Journal.
Brumm et al. (2021). Oldest cave art found in sulawesi. Science Advances.
Buckley (2012). Investigating cultural evolution using phylogenetic analysis: the origins and descent of the southeast asian tradition of warp ikat weaving. Plos One.
Buckley (2020). Japanese boatbuilders and the transmission of traditional culture. Evolutionary Anthropology Issues News And Reviews.
Buckley and Boudot (2017). The evolution of an ancient technology. Royal Society Open Science.
Burch and Widman (2021). Comic book bodies are supernormal stimuli: comparison of dc, marvel, and actual humans.. Evolutionary Behavioral Sciences.
Butler (2014). Statistical analysis of television style: what can numbers tell us about tv editing?. Cinema Journal.
Camps and Randon‐Furling (2022). Lost manuscripts and extinct texts: a dynamic model of cultural transmission. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Camps et al. (2025). On the transmission of texts: written cultures as complex systems. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Charlesworth et al. (2022). Historical representations of social groups across 200 years of word embeddings from google books. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Chibnik (2003). Crafting tradition. University Of Texas Press Ebooks.
Clark (2002). Openness, secrecy, authorship: technical arts and the culture of knowledge from antiquity to the renaissance. History Reviews Of New Books.
Clasen (2012). Monsters evolve: a biocultural approach to horror stories. Review Of General Psychology.
Clignet and Martindale (1991). The clockwork muse: the predictability of artistic change.. Contemporary Sociology A Journal Of Reviews.
Cochrane (2015). Phylogenetic analysis of polynesian ritual architecture suggests extensive cultural sharing and innovation. Journal Of The Polynesian Society.
Colares et al. (2024). Functional diversity in human song. Plos One.
Condit-Schultz (2017). Mcflow: a digital corpus of rap transcriptions. Empirical Musicology Review.
Conroy (2014). Before the “inward turn”: tracing represented thought in the french novel (1800-1929). Poetics Today.
Corbey et al. (2016). The acheulean handaxe: more like a bird's song than a beatles' tune?. Evolutionary Anthropology Issues News And Reviews.
Cutting (2016). The evolution of pace in popular movies. Cognitive Research Principles And Implications.
Cutting (2023). The afterlife of artists. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Cutting and Şimşek (2015). Shot durations, shot classes, and the increased pace of popular movies. Projections.
Cutting et al. (2011). Quicker, faster, darker: changes in hollywood film over 75 years. I-Perception.
Cutting et al. (2011). The changing poetics of the dissolve in hollywood film. Empirical Studies Of The Arts.
Cutting et al. (2011). Visual activity in hollywood film: 1935 to 2005 and beyond.. Psychology Of Aesthetics Creativity And The Arts.
d’Huy (2012). Un ours dans les étoiles, recherche phylogénétique sur un mythe préhistorique.. Hal (Le Centre Pour La Communication Scientifique Directe).
d’Huy (2013). A phylogenetic approach of mythology and its archaeological consequences.. Hal (Le Centre Pour La Communication Scientifique Directe).
d’Huy (2015). Polyphemus: a palaeolithic tale?. Hal (Le Centre Pour La Communication Scientifique Directe).
d’Huy (2015). Une nouvelle méthode, rapide et efficace, pour reconstruire les premières migrations de l'humanité.. Hal (Le Centre Pour La Communication Scientifique Directe).
Davies (2012). The artful species. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Davies (2013). The artful species: aesthetics, art, and evolution. Choice Reviews Online.
DeLong et al. (2013). Film through the human visual system. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Dexter et al. (2017). Quantitative criticism of literary relationships. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Dissanayake (1992). Homo aestheticus: where art comes from and why. Project Muse (Johns Hopkins University).
Dissanayake (1999). Antecedents of the temporal arts in early mother-infant interaction. The Mit Press Ebooks.
Dissanayake (2017). Ethology, interpersonal neurobiology, and play: insights into the evolutionary origin of the arts.. American Journal Of Play.
Dubourg (2021). Les mondes imaginaires dans les fictions. Acta Fabula.
Dubourg and Baumard (2021). Why imaginary worlds? The psychological foundations and cultural evolution of fictions with imaginary worlds. Behavioral And Brain Sciences.
Dubourg and Baumard (2022). Why and how did narrative fictions evolve? Fictions as entertainment technologies. Frontiers In Psychology.
Dubourg et al. (2024). The psychological origins of science fiction. Poetics.
Dubourg et al. (2025). Charting the rise of imaginary worlds in history. Humanities And Social Sciences Communications.
Dubourg et al. (2025). Quantifying and explaining the rise of fiction. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Duggan (2001). Ikats of savu: women weaving history in eastern indonesia. Medical Entomology And Zoology.
Duran‐Nebreda et al. (2022). Dilution of expertise in the rise and fall of collective innovation. Humanities And Social Sciences Communications.
Elgammal et al. (2018). The shape of art history in the eyes of the machine. Proceedings Of The Aaai Conference On Artificial Intelligence.
Eriksson and Coultas (2014). Corpses, maggots, poodles and rats: emotional selection operating in three phases of cultural transmission of urban legends. Journal Of Cognition And Culture.
Fingesten (1954). The theory of evolution in the history of art. College Art Journal.
Fitch (2006). The biology and evolution of music: a comparative perspective. Cognition.
Fitch (2015). Four principles of bio-musicology. Philosophical Transactions Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Foramitti et al. (2025). Societal crises disrupt long-term increases in stress, negativity, and simplicity in us billboard song lyrics from 1973 to 2023. Scientific Reports.
Fowler (1971). The life and death of literary forms. New Literary History.
Fraiberger et al. (2018). Quantifying reputation and success in art. Science.
Frazer (1901). The golden bough: a study in magic and religion. Nature.
Fritz et al. (2017). Listener evaluations of new and old italian violins. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Galenson and Weinberg (2000). Age and the quality of work: the case of modern american painters. Journal Of Political Economy.
Garg et al. (2018). Word embeddings quantify 100 years of gender and ethnic stereotypes. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Gasparov et al. (1996). A history of european versification. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Georges (2017). Western classical music development: a statistical analysis of composers similarity, differentiation and evolution. Scientometrics.
Gómez-Puerto et al. (2017). Preference for curved contours across cultures.. Psychology Of Aesthetics Creativity And The Arts.
González-Espinoza and Plotkin (2023). Quantifying the evolution of harmony and novelty in western classical music. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Granito et al. (2019). Style of pictorial representation is shaped by intergroup contact. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Gray et al. (2001). The music of nature and the nature of music. Science.
Griebel et al. (2024). Locating the leading edge of cultural change. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Günther and Thaidigsmann (2020). Šklovskij, viktor: o teorii prozy. J.b. Metzler Ebooks.
Hagen and Bryant (2003). Music and dance as a coalition signaling system. Human Nature.
Hagen and Hammerstein (2009). Did neanderthals and other early humans sing? Seeking the biological roots of music in the territorial advertisements of primates, lions, hyenas, and wolves. Musicae Scientiae.
Hankiss (1972). The structure of literary evolution. Poetics.
Harasim et al. (2021). Exploring the foundations of tonality: statistical cognitive modeling of modes in the history of western classical music. Humanities And Social Sciences Communications.
Haring (2006). The types of international folktales: a classification and bibliography. Based on the system of antti aarne and stith thompson (review). Marvels & Tales.
Harris and Moore (1966). The manuscript tradition of polybius. The Classical World.
Heath et al. (2001). Emotional selection in memes: the case of urban legends.. Journal Of Personality And Social Psychology.
Hinde and Barden (1985). The evolution of the teddy bear. Animal Behaviour.
Hodgson and Watson (2015). The visual brain and the early depiction of animals in europe and southeast asia. World Archaeology.
Hoeken and Vliet (2000). Suspense, curiosity, and surprise: how discourse structure influences the affective and cognitive processing of a story. Poetics.
Honing (2018). Musicality as an upbeat to music: introduction and research agenda. The Mit Press Ebooks.
Honing et al. (2015). Without it no music: cognition, biology and evolution of musicality. Philosophical Transactions Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Howe and Windram (2011). Phylomemetics—evolutionary analysis beyond the gene. Plos Biology.
Howe and Windram (2023). Manuscript traditions. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Hughes et al. (2012). Quantitative patterns of stylistic influence in the evolution of literature. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Interiano et al. (2018). Musical trends and predictability of success in contemporary songs in and out of the top charts. Royal Society Open Science.
Jacobs (2022). Yuri tynianov: permanent evolution. Selected essays on literature, theory and film. Doaj (Doaj: Directory Of Open Access Journals).
Jacobsen and Kristensen‐McLachlan (2025). I only read it for the plot! Maturity ratings affect fanfiction style and community engagement. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Jacoby and McDermott (2017). Integer ratio priors on musical rhythm revealed cross-culturally by iterated reproduction. Current Biology.
Jacoby et al. (2024). Commonality and variation in mental representations of music revealed by a cross-cultural comparison of rhythm priors in 15 countries. Nature Human Behaviour.
Jan (2018). “The two brothers”: reconciling perceptual-cognitive and statistical models of musical evolution. Frontiers In Psychology.
Jara-Figueroa et al. (2019). How the medium shapes the message: printing and the rise of the arts and sciences. Plos One.
Jing et al. (2022). Sameness entices, but novelty enchants in fanfiction online. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Johnson (2024). An ethnomusicology of musical instruments: form, function, and meaning. Oxford University Research Archive (Ora) (University Of Oxford).
Johnson et al. (2020). Upper paleolithic figurines showing women with obesity may represent survival symbols of climatic change. Obesity.
Jordan and O’Neill (2010). Untangling cultural inheritance: language diversity and long-house architecture on the pacific northwest coast. Philosophical Transactions Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Jordan and Shennan (2003). Cultural transmission, language, and basketry traditions amongst the california indians. Journal Of Anthropological Archaeology.
Juvan (2014). Taking darwin metaphorically and literally: genres and sciences in a survival struggle. Neohelicon.
Kaaronen et al. (2024). A global cross-cultural analysis of string figures reveals evidence of deep transmission and innovation. Journal Of The Royal Society Interface.
Karjus et al. (2023). Compression ensembles quantify aesthetic complexity and the evolution of visual art. Epj Data Science.
Karsdorp and Bosch (2016). The structure and evolution of story networks. Royal Society Open Science.
Karsdorp and Fonteyn (2019). Cultural entrenchment of folktales is encoded in language. Palgrave Communications.
Kello et al. (2017). Hierarchical temporal structure in music, speech and animal vocalizations: jazz is like a conversation, humpbacks sing like hermit thrushes. Journal Of The Royal Society Interface.
Kennedy (1992). A hoot in the dark: the evolution of general rhetoric. Philosophy And Rhetoric.
Kestemont et al. (2022). Forgotten books: the application of unseen species models to the survival of culture. Science.
Kim and Askin (2024). Feature-based structures of opportunity: genre innovation in the american popular music industry, 1958 to 2016. American Sociological Review.
Klimek et al. (2019). Fashion and art cycles are driven by counter-dominance signals of elite competition: quantitative evidence from music styles. Journal Of The Royal Society Interface.
Kohn and Mithen (1999). Handaxes: products of sexual selection?. Antiquity.
Kranenburg et al. (2012). A comparison between global and local features for computational classification of folk song melodies. Journal Of New Music Research.
Lappo et al. (2023). Cultural transmission of move choice in chess. Proceedings Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Lawergren (1981). Acoustics and evolution of arched harps. The Galpin Society Journal.
Lech et al. (2025). Is it getting harder to make a hit? Evidence from 65 years of us music chart history. Epj Data Science.
Lee et al. (2021). Cross-cultural mood perception in pop songs and its alignment with mood detection algorithms. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Lee et al. (2024). Social signals predict contemporary art prices better than visual features, particularly in emerging markets. Scientific Reports.
Lee et al. (2025). Mechanisms of cultural diversity in urban populations. Nature Communications.
Lessa et al. (1963). The types of the folktale. A classification and bibliography. Journal Of American Folklore.
Liebman et al. (2012). A phylogenetic approach to music performance analysis. Journal Of New Music Research.
Liu et al. (2018). Hot streaks in artistic, cultural, and scientific careers. Nature.
Liu et al. (2021). Understanding the onset of hot streaks across artistic, cultural, and scientific careers. Nature Communications.
Loewenstein and Heath (2009). The repetition‐break plot structure: a cognitive influence on selection in the marketplace of ideas. Cognitive Science.
Lomax (1980). Factors of musical style. Theory And Practice.
Lomax and Berkowitz (1972). The evolutionary taxonomy of culture. Science.
Long and So (2016). Turbulent flow. Modern Language Quarterly.
Luca et al. (2015). The evolving perception of controversial movies. Palgrave Communications.
Lukas and Claudius (2019). Five decades of us, uk, german and dutch music charts show that cultural processes are accelerating. Royal Society Open Science.
Lumaca and Baggio (2017). Cultural transmission and evolution of melodic structures in multi-generational signaling games. Artificial Life.
Lycett (2015). Differing patterns of material culture intergroup variation on the high plains: quantitative analyses of parfleche characteristics vs. Moccasin decoration. American Antiquity.
Lycett (2017). Cultural patterns within and outside of the post-contact great plains as revealed by parfleche characteristics: implications for areal arrangements in artifactual data. Journal Of Anthropological Archaeology.
Lycett and Cramon‐Taubadel (2016). Transmission of biology and culture among post-contact native americans on the western great plains. Scientific Reports.
MacCallum et al. (2012). Evolution of music by public choice. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Macé et al. (2003). Le classement des manuscrits par la statistique et la phylogénétique : le cas de grégoire de nazianze et de basile le minime. Revue D Histoire Des Textes.
Major‐Smith et al. (2017). Cooperation and the evolution of hunter-gatherer storytelling. Nature Communications.
Manshel (2020). The lag: technology and fiction in the twentieth century. Pmla/Publications Of The Modern Language Association Of America.
Martindale and Uemura (1983). Stylistic evolution in european music. Leonardo.
Martins and Baumard (2020). The rise of prosociality in fiction preceded democratic revolutions in early modern europe. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Matthews et al. (2011). Testing for divergent transmission histories among cultural characters: a study using bayesian phylogenetic methods and iranian tribal textile data. Plos One.
Mauch et al. (2015). The evolution of popular music: usa 1960–2010. Royal Society Open Science.
McBride et al. (2023). Convergent evolution in a large cross-cultural database of musical scales. Plos One.
Mehr et al. (2018). Form and function in human song. Current Biology.
Mehr et al. (2019). Universality and diversity in human song. Science.
Mehr et al. (2020). Origins of music in credible signaling. Behavioral And Brain Sciences.
Mercier et al. (2025). The appeal of insight: why riddles and whodunits captivate us.. Psychology Of Aesthetics Creativity And The Arts.
Milan et al. (2020). Elites, communities and the limited benefits of mentorship in electronic music. Scientific Reports.
Miller (1999). Evolution of human music through sexual selection. The Mit Press Ebooks.
Mithen (1996). The prehistory of the mind: a search for the origins of art, religion and science. Medical Entomology And Zoology.
Miton and Morin (2019). When iconicity stands in the way of abbreviation: no zipfian effect for figurative signals. Plos One.
Miton et al. (2020). A forward bias in human profile‐oriented portraits. Cognitive Science.
Miton et al. (2020). Motor constraints influence cultural evolution of rhythm. Proceedings Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Monechi et al. (2017). Significance and popularity in music production. Royal Society Open Science.
Monechi et al. (2017). Waves of novelties in the expansion into the adjacent possible. Plos One.
Mongeau and Sankoff (1990). Comparison of musical sequences. Computers And The Humanities.
Montagu et al. (1969). Folk song style and culture.. Man.
Moretti (2000). Conjectures on world literature. New Left Review.
Moretti (2000). The slaughterhouse of literature. Modern Language Quarterly.
Moretti (2001). Planet hollywood. New Left Review.
Moretti (2006). Graphs, maps, trees: abstract models for a literary history. Choice Reviews Online.
Moretti and Sobchuk (2019). Hidden in plain sight: data visualization in the humanities. Mpg.pure (Max Planck Society).
Morin (2013). How portraits turned their eyes upon us: visual preferences and demographic change in cultural evolution. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Morin and Acerbi (2016). Birth of the cool: a two-centuries decline in emotional expression in anglophone fiction. Cognition & Emotion.
Morin and Miton (2018). Detecting wholesale copying in cultural evolution. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Morin and Sobchuk (2021). The shortlist effect: nestedness contributions as a tool to explain cultural success. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Morin and Sobchuk (2023). Why monsters are dangerous. Poetics Today.
Morin et al. (2019). Why people die in novels: testing the ordeal simulation hypothesis. Palgrave Communications.
Morriss‐Kay (2009). The evolution of human artistic creativity. Journal Of Anatomy.
Moss et al. (2024). Computational modeling of interval distributions in tonal space reveals paradigmatic stylistic changes in western music history. Humanities And Social Sciences Communications.
Müller and Winters (2018). Compression in cultural evolution: homogeneity and structure in the emergence and evolution of a large-scale online collaborative art project. Plos One.
Mundy (2014). Evolutionary categories and musical style from adler to america. Journal Of The American Musicological Society.
Muzny et al. (2017). Dialogism in the novel: a computational model of the dialogic nature of narration and quotations. Digital Scholarship In The Humanities.
Nakamura et al. (2019). Statistical evolutionary laws in music styles. Scientific Reports.
Nakawake and Sato (2019). Systematic quantitative analyses reveal the folk-zoological knowledge embedded in folktales. Palgrave Communications.
Negro et al. (2022). Bustin’ out: the evolution of novelty and diversity in recorded music. Research In The Sociology Of Organizations.
Netti (2006). Response to victor grauer: on the concept of evolution in the history of ethnomusicology. The World of Music.
Nettl and Bohlman (1992). Comparative musicology and anthropology of music: essays on the history of ethnomusicology. Choice Reviews Online.
Nettle (2005). The wheel of fire and the mating game: explaining the origins of tragedy and comedy. Journal Of Cultural And Evolutionary Psychology.
Nia et al. (2015). The evolution of air resonance power efficiency in the violin and its ancestors. Proceedings Of The Royal Society A Mathematical Physical And Engineering Sciences.
Nikolsky et al. (2020). The overlooked tradition of “personal music” and its place in the evolution of music. Frontiers In Psychology.
Nishikawa and Ihara (2022). Cultural transmission of traditional songs in the ryukyu archipelago. Plos One.
Nishikawa and Ihara (2025). Exploring factors for melodic diversification of folk songs in the ryukyu archipelago. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Norenzayan et al. (2006). Memory and mystery: the cultural selection of minimally counterintuitive narratives. Cognitive Science.
Bottigheimer (2009). Fairy tales: a new history.
Nettl (2015). The study of ethnomusicology: thirty-three discussions.
O’Toole and Horvát (2023). Novelty and cultural evolution in modern popular music. Epj Data Science.
Oberlin and Gieryn (2015). Place and culture-making: geographic clumping in the emergence of artistic schools. Poetics.
Padilla‐Iglesias et al. (2024). Deep history of cultural and linguistic evolution among central african hunter-gatherers. Nature Human Behaviour.
Paige (2017). Examples, samples, signs: an artifactual view of fictionality in the french novel, 1681–1830. New Literary History.
Parada‐Cabaleiro et al. (2024). Song lyrics have become simpler and more repetitive over the last five decades. Scientific Reports.
Park et al. (2015). Topology and evolution of the network of western classical music composers. Epj Data Science.
Passmore et al. (2024). Global musical diversity is largely independent of linguistic and genetic histories. Nature Communications.
Patel (2018). Music as a transformative technology of the mind: an update. The Mit Press Ebooks.
Patel and Rueden (2021). Where they sing solo: accounting for cross-cultural variation in collective music-making in theories of music evolution. Behavioral And Brain Sciences.
Patrick and Quentin (2016). Automatic tune family identification by musical sequence alignment supplementary metadata. Opal (Open@Latrobe) (La Trobe University).
Pavlek et al. (2019). Ancient coin designs encoded increasing amounts of economic information over centuries. Journal Of Anthropological Archaeology.
Percino et al. (2014). Instrumentational complexity of music genres and why simplicity sells. Plos One.
Pilgrim et al. (2024). The rising entropy of english in the attention economy. Communications Psychology.
Platnick and Cameron (1977). Cladistic methods in textual, linguistic, and phylogenetic analysis. Systematic Biology.
Pocklington and Best (1997). Cultural evolution and units of selection in replicating text. Journal Of Theoretical Biology.
Popescu and Rohrmeier (2024). Core principles of melodic organisation emerge from transmission chains with random melodies. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Pradhan and Schaik (2009). Why do females find ornaments attractive? The coercion-avoidance hypothesis. Biological Journal Of The Linnean Society.
Propp et al. (1958). Morphology of the folktale. Internet Archive (Internet Archive).
Prum (2013). Coevolutionary aesthetics in human and biotic artworlds. Biology & Philosophy.
Puts (2010). Beauty and the beast: mechanisms of sexual selection in humans. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Rahaim (2006). What else do we say when we say music evolves?. The World of Music.
Ravignani et al. (2016). Musical evolution in the lab exhibits rhythmic universals. Nature Human Behaviour.
Ravignani et al. (2018). Evolving building blocks of rhythm: how human cognition creates music via cultural transmission. Annals Of The New York Academy Of Sciences.
Ravignani et al. (2018). The evolution of musicality: what can be learned from language evolution research?. Frontiers In Neuroscience.
Reynolds and Zipes (2008). Why fairy tales stick: the evolution and relevance of a genre. The Modern Language Review.
Robinson (2015). Four rules for the application of phylogenetics in the analysis of textual traditions. Digital Scholarship In The Humanities.
Robinson (2024). Philipp roelli, ed., handbook of stemmatology: history, methodology, digital approaches. Variants.
Roederer (1984). The search for a survival value of music. Music Perception An Interdisciplinary Journal.
Roeske et al. (2020). Categorical rhythms are shared between songbirds and humans. Current Biology.
Rogers et al. (2009). Inferring population histories using cultural data. Proceedings Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Rohrmeier et al. (2015). Principles of structure building in music, language and animal song. Philosophical Transactions Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Rosati et al. (2021). Modelling song popularity as a contagious process. Proceedings Of The Royal Society A Mathematical Physical And Engineering Sciences.
Ross and Atkinson (2015). Folktale transmission in the arctic provides evidence for high bandwidth social learning among hunter–gatherer groups. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Ross et al. (2013). Population structure and cultural geography of a folktale in europe. Proceedings Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Roux et al. (2017). Persisting technological boundaries: social interactions, cognitive correlations and polarization. Journal Of Anthropological Archaeology.
Rubin (1995). Memory in oral traditions: the cognitive psychology of epic, ballads, and counting-out rhymes. Choice Reviews Online.
Rzeszutek et al. (2011). The structure of cross-cultural musical diversity. Proceedings Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Sack et al. (2014). Simulating the cultural evolution of literary genres.. Dh.
Salganik and Watts (2008). Leading the herd astray: an experimental study of self-fulfilling prophecies in an artificial cultural market. Social Psychology Quarterly.
Salganik et al. (2006). Experimental study of inequality and unpredictability in an artificial cultural market. Science.
Savage (2018). Alan lomax’s cantometrics project. Music & Science.
Savage (2019). Cultural evolution of music. Palgrave Communications.
Savage and Atkinson (2018). Automatic tune family identification by musical sequence alignment.. Zenodo (Cern European Organization For Nuclear Research).
Savage and Brown (2014). Mapping music: cluster analysis of song-type frequencies within and between cultures. Ethnomusicology.
Savage et al. (2015). Statistical universals reveal the structures and functions of human music. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Savage et al. (2017). Global music recordings support the motor constraint hypothesis for human and avian song contour. Music Perception An Interdisciplinary Journal.
Savage et al. (2020). Music as a coevolved system for social bonding. Behavioral And Brain Sciences.
Savage et al. (2022). Sequence alignment of folk song melodies reveals cross-cultural regularities of musical evolution. Current Biology.
Schich et al. (2014). A network framework of cultural history. Science.
Schniter et al. (2017). Information transmission and the oral tradition: evidence of a late-life service niche for tsimane amerindians. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Seghers (2014). Cross-species comparison in the evolutionary study of art: a cognitive approach to the ape art debate. Review Of General Psychology.
Seghers (2016). Proximate and ultimate factors in evolutionary thinking on art. Human Ethology.
Šeļa et al. (2022). Semantics of european poetry is shaped by conservative forces: the relationship between poetic meter and meaning in accentual-syllabic verse. Plos One.
Serrà et al. (2012). Measuring the evolution of contemporary western popular music. Scientific Reports.
Shelya and Sobchuk (2017). The shortest species: how the length of russian poetry changed (1750–1921). Studia Metrica Et Poetica.
Shennan (2001). Demography and cultural innovation: a model and its implications for the emergence of modern human culture. Cambridge Archaeological Journal.
Shin and Park (2022). Evolutionary dynamics of cultural memes and application to massive movie data. Arxiv (Cornell University).
Sigaki et al. (2018). History of art paintings through the lens of entropy and complexity. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Silva and Tehrani (2016). Comparative phylogenetic analyses uncover the ancient roots of indo-european folktales. Royal Society Open Science.
Sinclair et al. (2022). From beethoven to beyoncé: do changing aesthetic cultures amount to “cumulative cultural evolution?”. Frontiers In Psychology.
Singh (2021). The sympathetic plot, its psychological origins, and implications for the evolution of fiction. Emotion Review.
So and Long (2013). Network analysis and the sociology of modernism. Boundary 2.
Sobchuk (2016). The evolution of dialogues: a quantitative study of russian novels (1830–1900). Poetics Today.
Sobchuk (2018). Charting artistic evolution: an essay in theory. Dspace Repository (University Of Tartu).
Sobchuk (2023). Evolution of modern literature and film. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Sobchuk and Beheim (2025). Does literature evolve one funeral at a time?. Proceedings Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Sobchuk and Tinits (2020). Cultural attraction in film evolution: the case of anachronies. Journal Of Cognition And Culture.
Sobchuk et al. (2024). First-mover advantage in music. Epj Data Science.
Solé and Valverde (2020). Evolving complexity: how tinkering shapes cells, software and ecological networks. Philosophical Transactions Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Solé et al. (2013). The evolutionary ecology of technological innovations. Complexity.
Sparks et al. (2022). The transmission of ‘the west saxon royal genealogy’: a phylogenetic approach. Digital Scholarship In The Humanities.
Sreenivasan (2013). Quantitative analysis of the evolution of novelty in cinema through crowdsourced keywords. Scientific Reports.
Straffon and Tennie (2025). Art beyond cognition: reframing neanderthal art through social connectivity and cultural transmission. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Strauch et al. (2025). African harps as units of cultural evolution: a cladistic analysis on their morphology. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Street et al. (2022). The role of population size in folk tune complexity. Humanities And Social Sciences Communications.
Stromp et al. (2018). How realistic are painted lightnings? Quantitative comparison of the morphology of painted and real lightnings: a psychophysical approach. Proceedings Of The Royal Society A Mathematical Physical And Engineering Sciences.
Stubbersfield and Tehrani (2012). Expect the unexpected? Testing for minimally counterintuitive (mci) bias in the transmission of contemporary legends. Social Science Computer Review.
Stubbersfield et al. (2014). Serial killers, spiders and cybersex: social and survival information bias in the transmission of urban legends. British Journal Of Psychology.
Stubbersfield et al. (2017). Chicken tumours and a fishy revenge: evidence for emotional content bias in the cumulative recall of urban legends. Journal Of Cognition And Culture.
Stubbersfield et al. (2017). Cognitive evolution and the transmission of popular narratives: a literature review and application to urban legends. Evolutionary Studies In Imaginative Culture.
Sugiyama (2001). Food, foragers, and folklore: the role of narrative in human subsistence. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Sugiyama (2001). Narrative theory and function: why evolution matters. Philosophy And Literature.
Sugiyama (2017). Oral storytelling as evidence of pedagogy in forager societies. Frontiers In Psychology.
Sugiyama (2024). Oral storytelling: humanity's first data management system?. Evolution And Human Behavior.
Tai et al. (2018). Acoustic evolution of old italian violins from amati to stradivari. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Tehrani (2013). The phylogeny of little red riding hood. Plos One.
Tehrani (2023). The cultural transmission and evolution of folk narratives. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Tehrani and Collard (2002). Investigating cultural evolution through biological phylogenetic analyses of turkmen textiles. Journal Of Anthropological Archaeology.
Tehrani and Collard (2013). Do transmission isolating mechanisms (trims) influence cultural evolution? Evidence from patterns of textile diversity within and between iranian tribal groups.. Durham Research Online (Durham University).
Tehrani et al. (2010). The cophylogeny of populations and cultures: reconstructing the evolution of iranian tribal craft traditions using trees and jungles. Philosophical Transactions Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Tehrani et al. (2015). Oral fairy tale or literary fake? Investigating the origins oflittle red riding hoodusing phylogenetic network analysis. Digital Scholarship In The Humanities.
Tëmkin and Eldredge (2007). Phylogenetics and material cultural evolution. Current Anthropology.
Ternovski and Yasseri (2019). Social complex contagion in music listenership: a natural experiment with 1.3 million participants. Social Networks.
Thompson and Sydow (1951). Selected papers on folklore. Journal Of American Folklore.
Tiège et al. (2021). From animal signals to art: manipulative animal signaling and the evolutionary foundations of aesthetic behavior and art production. The Quarterly Review Of Biology.
Tierney et al. (2011). The motor origins of human and avian song structure. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Tinits and Sobchuk (2020). Open-ended cumulative cultural evolution of hollywood film crews. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Tran et al. (2021). Entropy trade-offs in artistic design: a case study of tamilkolam. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Tran et al. (2021). Limited scope for group coordination in stylistic variations of kolam art. Frontiers In Psychology.
Trevor and Frühholz (2024). Music as an evolved tool for socio-affective fiction. Emotion Review.
Underwood et al. (2022). Cohort succession explains most change in literary culture. Sociological Science.
Valverde (2016). Major transitions in information technology. Philosophical Transactions Of The Royal Society B Biological Sciences.
Valverde et al. (2025). The cultural macroevolution of arcade video games: innovation, collaboration, and collapse. Evolutionary Human Sciences.
Varnum et al. (2021). Why are song lyrics becoming simpler? A time series analysis of lyrical complexity in six decades of american popular music. Plos One.
Venrooij (2015). A community ecology of genres. Poetics.
Verhoef and Ravignani (2021). Melodic universals emerge or are sustained through cultural evolution. Frontiers In Psychology.
Verpooten (2023). Signalling and the cultural evolution of art. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Verpooten and Dewitte (2016). The conundrum of modern art. Human Nature.
Verpooten and Nelissen (2010). Sensory exploitation and cultural transmission: the late emergence of iconic representations in human evolution. Theory In Biosciences.
Verpooten et al. (2023). Do prestige and animacy matter to art experts? Exploring social learning, signaling, perceptual, and cognitive explanations. Empirical Studies Of The Arts.
Wachsmann (1964). Human migration and african harps. Journal Of The International Folk Music Council.
Wafer (2023). The origins of the world’s mythologies. International Journal Of Environmental Studies.
Walker et al. (2021). Stabilization of cultural innovations depends on population density: testing an epidemiological model of cultural evolution against a global dataset of rock art sites and climate-based estimates of ancient population densities. Plos One.
Warrell et al. (2024). Latent evolutionary signatures: a general framework for analysing music and cultural evolution. Journal Of The Royal Society Interface.
Weiß et al. (2018). Computational corpus analysis: a case study on jazz solos. Zenodo (Cern European Organization For Nuclear Research).
Weiß et al. (2018). Investigating style evolution of western classical music: a computational approach. Musicae Scientiae.
West et al. (2021). Postmortem memory of public figures in news and social media. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Westenberger (2021). Drifting to the top? Disentangling mechanisms influencing the turnover rate of popular music. Journal Of Mathematical Sociology.
Wiele (2016). The loss of poetic effects: from indeterminate to conventionalised meaning. Language And Literature International Journal Of Stylistics.
Wiessner (2014). Embers of society: firelight talk among the ju/’hoansi bushmen. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Windram et al. (2014). A phylogenetic analysis of orlando gibbons's prelude in g. Early Music.
Windram et al. (2022). A phylogenetic analysis of two preludes from J. S. Bach’s well-tempered clavier ii. Early Music.
Yarkho (2019). Speech distribution in five-act tragedies (a question of classicism and romanticism). Journal Of Literary Theory.
Youngblood (2019). Conformity bias in the cultural transmission of music sampling traditions. Royal Society Open Science.
Youngblood (2019). Cultural transmission modes of music sampling traditions remain stable despite delocalization in the digital age. Plos One.
Youngblood et al. (2021). Phylogenetic reconstruction of the cultural evolution of electronic music via dynamic community detection (1975–1999). Evolution And Human Behavior.
Youngblood et al. (2023). Cultural evolution and music. Oxford University Press Ebooks.
Yücesoy et al. (2018). Success in books: a big data approach to bestsellers. Epj Data Science.
Yurdum et al. (2023). Universal interpretations of vocal music. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Zhang et al. (2023). The fragility of artists’ reputations from 1795 to 2020. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
Zhong et al. (2025). Literary fiction indicates early modernization in china prior to western influence. Sociological Science.
Zivic et al. (2013). Perceptual basis of evolving western musical styles. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences.
function (file = NULL, append = FALSE, type = c("output", "message"), 
    split = FALSE) 
{
    type <- match.arg(type)
    if (type == "message") {
        if (is.null(file)) 
            file <- stderr()
        else if (!inherits(file, "connection") || !isOpen(file)) 
            stop("'file' must be NULL or an already open connection")
        if (split) 
            stop("cannot split the message connection")
        .Internal(sink(file, FALSE, TRUE, FALSE))
    }
    else {
        closeOnExit <- FALSE
        if (is.null(file)) 
            file <- -1L
        else if (is.character(file)) {
            file <- file(file, if (append) 
                "a"
            else "w")
            closeOnExit <- TRUE
        }
        else if (!inherits(file, "connection")) 
            stop("'file' must be NULL, a connection or a character string")
        .Internal(sink(file, closeOnExit, FALSE, split))
    }
}
<bytecode: 0x1127ba2f8>
<environment: namespace:base>
